." Manpage for ai
.TH ai 1 "March 2026" "setmy.info" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai \- fetch AI profiles from the knowledge app and print them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ai
.I [PROFILE]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ai
command fetches Markdown content for one or more AI profiles from the remote
knowledge app and prints it to standard output.
.PP
Each
.I PROFILE
argument may be a plain profile name or use the
.B name:cat1,cat2
syntax to request specific categories of that profile.
.PP
Profiles are retrieved via
.BR curl (1)
by sending an HTTP POST request to
.I ${AI_KNOWLEDGE_APP_URL}/api/ai
(default:
.IR http://localhost:8800/api/ai ).
Authentication is performed using the
.B JWT_TOKEN
environment variable as a Bearer token.
.PP
The fetched content is processed through
.BR envsubst (1)
to substitute environment variables before being printed.
.PP
If a file named
.I ai.sh
exists in the current working directory, it is sourced before processing each
profile, allowing local environment variable definitions to be used during
substitution.
.PP
The
.B default
profile is always fetched and appended last, unless it was explicitly listed
in the arguments. This ensures baseline agent instructions are always present
at the end of the output, where they are least likely to be lost from the
agent context window.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B JWT_TOKEN
Required. Bearer token for authenticating with the knowledge app.
.TP
.B AI_KNOWLEDGE_APP_URL
Base URL of the knowledge app. Overrides any value set in the config files.
Defaults to
.IR http://localhost:8800
if not set in environment or config files.
.SH EXAMPLES
Fetch a single profile:
.PP
.nf
ai java
.fi
.PP
Fetch multiple profiles:
.PP
.nf
ai java maven springboot
.fi
.PP
Fetch specific categories of a profile:
.PP
.nf
ai java:requirement,task
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $(smi-etc-location)/ai.conf
Optional system-wide config file. Sets
.B AI_KNOWLEDGE_APP_URL
and other variables.
.TP
.I $(smi-home-location)/ai.conf
Optional user config file. Overrides the system config file.
.TP
.I ./ai.sh
Optional local script sourced for environment variable definitions used in substitution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR envsubst (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR smi-build-tasklist (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Imre Tabur <imre.tabur@mail.ee>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Imre Tabur <imre.tabur@mail.ee>
.PP
Licensed under the MIT License.
