." Manpage for smi-build-tasklist
.TH smi-build-tasklist 1 "March 2026" "setmy.info" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
smi-build-tasklist \- build a tasklist file from components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smi-build-tasklist
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR OUTPUT_FILE ]
.RI [ CONTENT_FILE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B smi-build-tasklist
command generates a tasklist Markdown file in the current directory.
It combines an introduction, AI-generated profiles, and content sections.
.PP
Multiple independent tasklists can be generated in the same directory by
specifying different
.B \-\-output
file names, each with its own content file. This enables parallel agent
execution (e.g. Argo Workflows) where each agent receives its own tasklist
while sharing the same working directory.
.SS Options
.TP
.BI \-\-output \ OUTPUT_FILE
Write the generated tasklist to
.I OUTPUT_FILE
instead of the default
.IR TASKLIST.md .
.PP
The process follows these steps:
.IP 1. 2
If
.I AGENTS-INTRO.md
exists in the current directory, it is used as the starting content for the output file.
Otherwise, the output file is started empty.
.IP 2. 2
If
.I ai.profiles
exists in the current directory, its content is read as a list of profiles. The
.BR ai (1)
command is then called with these profiles, fetching them from the remote knowledge
app, and the output is appended to the output file.
Profile names may use the
.B name:cat1,cat2
syntax to request specific categories.
.IP 3. 2
If arguments are provided, each
.I CONTENT_FILE
is appended to the output file.
If no arguments are provided, the command looks for
.I TASKLIST-CONTENT.md
and appends it if found.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I AGENTS-INTRO.md
Introduction section for the tasklist.
.TP
.I ai.profiles
Space-separated list of AI profiles to include.
.TP
.I TASKLIST-CONTENT.md
Default content section if no arguments are provided.
.TP
.I TASKLIST.md
Default generated output file (overridden by
.BR \-\-output ).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ai (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Imre Tabur <imre.tabur@mail.ee>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Imre Tabur <imre.tabur@mail.ee>
.PP
Licensed under the MIT License.
