.TH smi-jail "1" "October 2025" "SMI Toolset 0.100.0" "SMI Jail Command"
.SH NAME
smi-jail \- Build and manage FreeBSD jails using Jailfiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B JAIL=name TAG=tag smi-jail
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B smi-jail
is a tool for building and managing FreeBSD jails using a DSL defined in a \fBJailfile\fR, similar in concept to Dockerfiles.
It requires the environment variables \fBJAIL\fR (name of the jail) and \fBTAG\fR (version or tag) to be set.
.SH JAILFILE COMMANDS
The \fBJailfile\fR is a shell script containing the following supported DSL commands:
.TP
\fBFROM base\fR or \fBFROM jail:tag\fR
Specifies the base image. \fBbase\fR downloads FreeBSD base and ports. A \fBjail:tag\fR extracts an existing tagged jail.
.TP
\fBCOPY src dest\fR
Copies files from the host to the jail.
.TP
\fBRUN command\fR
Executes a command inside the jail using \fBchroot\fR(8).
.TP
\fBINSTALL package...\fR
Installs FreeBSD packages inside the jail using \fBpkg\fR.
.TP
\fBUPDATE\fR
Updates the \fBpkg\fR repository inside the jail.
.TP
\fBFB_UPDATE\fR
Updates the FreeBSD base system inside the jail using \fBfreebsd-update\fR(8).
.TP
\fBUPGRADE\fR
Upgrades all installed packages inside the jail.
.TP
\fBPW command\fR
Manages users and groups inside the jail using \fBpw\fR(8).
.TP
\fBSYSRC command\fR
Manages \fBrc.conf\fR entries inside the jail using \fBsysrc\fR(8).
.TP
\fBPACKAGE\fR
Creates a compressed \fB.txz\fR archive of the jail in the jails location.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Command written by Imre Tabur.
Documentation written by Imre Tabur.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report smi-jail bugs to \fIinfo@setmy.info\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR smi-jails-location (1),
.BR jail (8),
.BR chroot (8)

