.TH smi-make-diskless "1" "October 2025" "SMI Toolset 0.100.0" "SMI Diskless Command"
.SH NAME
smi-make-diskless \- Setup and install a diskless environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smi-make-diskless
.I DISKLESS_NAME
.I SERVER_IP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B smi-make-diskless
is an automated tool for setting up a diskless workstation or server environment on Linux (primarily tested on Rocky Linux 9.2).
.PP
The command performs a comprehensive setup process:
.IP 1.
\fBPrerequisites\fR: Installs \fBdhcp-server\fR, \fBtftp-server\fR, \fBnfs-server\fR, and \fBnfs-utils\fR on the host.
.IP 2.
\fBDirectory Structure\fR: Creates the diskless root, home, and var directories under \fB/var/opt/setmy.info/diskless/\fIDISKLESS_NAME\fR.
.IP 3.
\fBOS Installation\fR: Uses \fBdnf --installroot\fR to install a base system (@core, kernel, nfs-utils, dbus) into the diskless root directory.
.IP 4.
\fBTFTP/PXE Setup\fR: Downloads Rocky Linux PXE boot files (vmlinuz, initrd.img, etc.) to \fB/var/lib/tftpboot\fR and configures \fBpxelinux.0\fR.
.IP 5.
\fBClient Configuration\fR: Configures \fB/etc/fstab\fR inside the diskless root to mount home and var via NFS from the \fISERVER_IP\fR. Disables SELinux on the client.
.IP 6.
\fBHost Services\fR: Configures the host's NFS exports, DHCP server (\fBdhcpd.conf\fR), and TFTP boot options.
.IP 7.
\fBFirewall/Systemd\fR: Enables and starts all required services and opens necessary firewall ports (DHCP, TFTP, NFS).
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Command written by Imre Tabur.
Documentation written by Imre Tabur.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report smi-make-diskless bugs to \fIinfo@setmy.info\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR smi-start-diskless (1),
.BR smi-diskless-useradd (1),
.BR smi-diskless-passwd (1)
